Mechanics|Description|Score
Data|The word “data” dates back to 1640s, being used as the plural of “datum”, from Latin datum “given”, neuter past participle of dare “to give” (ONLINE ETYMOLOGY DICTIONARY, 2020). The meaning evolved through the years, from “a fact given as the basis for calculation in mathematical problems” and “numerical facts collected for future reference” to “transmittable and storable information by which computer operations are performed” (ONLINE ETYMOLOGY DICTIONARY, 2020). Nowadays, data can be found with the following meanings in dictionaries: “factual information (such as measurements or statistics) used as a basis for reasoning, discussion, or calculation”; “information in digital form that can be transmitted or processed”; and “information output by a sensing device or organ that includes both useful and irrelevant or redundant information and must be processed to be meaningful”. Broadest of them all. Some of the aforementioned definitions are bound to computer machines, but we believe there is a bunch of data that was used even before the machines of the Digital Era, such as all the data manually collected by census takers for inquires. Just like we did with our definition of Computer, we are stretching it beyond machines. An interesting point to note, is that many of those definitions explicitly tell or at least imply that data is transmittable, which lead us back to Explicit Knowledge. But then, we are confronted with the difference of knowledge to information. To avoid the philosophical trap of an endless loop of definitions, their origins and meanings, we are are not digging into the definitions of knowledge and information, just assume the common sense for those words, that actually could apply to nearly anything. Quantized. The word “datum” is already used, specially in cartography, as a reference point from which scientific measurements are made, which comes from its Latin origin “given”, i.e. an accepted fact (INTRODUCTION TO DATUM, 2020). Despite of this, we will be facing datum as the singular of data, which our aforementioned definitions suggest that should be transmittable. Due to our real world limitations, we can only transmit finite, discrete information, even though we may represent infinity, continuums and analogical information by assuming strategies such as inductive reasoning or a massively large amount of possibilities to sample the whole, e.g. floating points. Therefore, data is a quantized information, i.e. information composed by a finite set of discrete units. Term 15 – Data: A quantized information. Information made up by a finite set of discrete units, what allows it to be transmitted and operated by Computers. Guiding the usage. Data is essentially encoded by structures to define how its units and their combinations are mapped into respective meanings and how they can be managed or transformed. Data structures commonly refer to stacks, graphs, charts, tables and classes. But following the aforementioned definition, the binary number system that underlies most of our contemporary Computer machines are data structures too. So, we are classifying data structures as semiotic, primitive or higher-order. Semiotic data structures are at the very bottom, they are used to define how to communicate or express, such as numeral systems, codes and natural, sign, formal and programming languages. Those thing may usually do not be considered a data structure, but they fit our definition of Data Structure, so we are including them. Primitive data structures can be commonly found with the name of data types, such as Booleans, characters and floating points, they are used to define the values we want to work with. Higher-order data structures are what people usually refer to when talking about data structures, such as lists, tables, charts and graphs, they are used to organize values (which, in turn, are defined by the primitive data structures). Term 16 – Data Structure: A model that defines how the building blocks of Data are organized in order to raise up meaning, how they can relate and how to access, modify or operate upon the Data modeled by it. CT data practices. In the CT literature data often goes along with gathering/collection, transformation, analysis and representation (ISTE; CSTA, 2011; WING, 2011; BARR; STEPHENSON, 2011; SHUTE; SUN; ASBELL-CLARKE, 2017). Data gathering and data collection seems to be used interchangeably, so we are going to keep them as synonyms. Data collection/gathering is the prior process of obtaining the information to generate Data. Data representation is the process of defining or choosing the Data Structure and modeling the Data accordingly. Data transformation is the process of migrating Data from a Data Structure to another. We are also adding Data interpretation, the process of recovering the information used to generate the Data. That is, reaching the meaning of the values in a given Data Structure, ideally the intended meanings. Analysis. In a cross with evaluation, Data may be systematically analyzed in a way unrestricted information may not. For instance, data mining can find patterns by organizing data entries into clusters only if the information is made of comparable pieces. Seeing information into a given Data Structure may reveal or highlight features or properties of the information, such as proportion notions on a pie chart or trends in a line chart. Well-defined data structures enables formal proofs, potent mathematical and logical tools for understanding and predicting phenomena. Therefore, Data analysis is the process of building new information about the existing Data, based on them. That is, analyzing data is about drawing conclusions, classifying and spotting properties harnessing the Data Structure used to represent the information. Visualization. With the rise of the big data field and the massive amounts of data being produced and shared every second nowadays a special concern came to light: how to best visualize all this data. This visualization effort targets not only analysis, but communication. How to inform, how to show, how to pass on information? More specifically, in which form? Thus, the concerns with the Data Structure extrapolates intern operation and management to external relations, to present it to third parties. Thus, Data visualization is the process of accessing and/or granting access to Data, which relies on representation and enables/powers interpretation and analysis. Data in CS. We can’t say CS created data, but for sure CS warmly adopted and embraced it. Maps and charts are hard to be hand drawn if we are willing to correctly have them in scale. Computer machines have drastically contributed to their plotting, revolutionizing data visualization regardless of the field or context. Those precise representations were already far, if not unreachable from human hands, but as CS advances we use and generate more and more data. It has gone to the point that humans couldn’t handle them without machines automating a massive amount of work, in fact, a whole new field has emerged dedicated entirely to treat, analyze and visualize huge amounts of data using automatic tools and techniques: the Big Data field. Examples. Figure 10 illustrates the main concepts discussed in this subsection: data structures (semiotic, primitive and higher-order), gathering/collection, representation, transformation, visualization, interpretation and analysis. In the sequence, a frame shows examples of what is included in the CT Line of Data: (CTS) Topics such as charts and cartography (higher-order Data Structures) in geography classes and genetic code (semiotic Data Structures) in biology classes; (CTS) Expressions such as switching between data structures (transformation) and creating data models (representation); and (CTS) Sensibility(ies) such as comprehension of the disposed information (interpretation) and clustering (analysis).Topics – Data: ; (Geography) Cartography ; (Interdisciplinary) Charts ; (Math) Function Curves ; (Chemistry) Periodic Table ; (Physics) Systems of Measurement ; (Physics) Quantum Mechanics ; (Biology) Genetic Code Expressions – Data: ; Gathering Information ; Plotting ; Creating Data Models ; Switching Between Data Structures Sensibilities – Data: ; Comprehension of the Disposed Information ; Spotting Properties based on the Data Structure ; Clustering ; Decoding. |0